== Preperations ==

I'm using '''Ubuntu server 12.04.1 LTS''' for this exercise.

I believe these instructions will also be applied to other Ubuntu versions or even most Debian based distro.

Lab requirements:
* PC with networking, and even better with internet
* This PC also need to be able to fire up Virtualbox and actually run an Ubuntu server on top of Virtualbox with decent performance
* In this notebook I'm using a laptop with Ubuntu desktop 13.04 on it and Virtualbox that came with the distro
* My laptop IP would be 192.168.56.1 (default vboxnet0 device)
* My Virtualbox IP (with Ubuntu and opensips on it) would be '''192.168.56.45'''

Source files:
* OpenSIPS 1.9.1 http://opensips.org/pub/opensips/1.9.1/src/opensips-1.9.1_src.tar.gz

== Step 1: Preparations ==

Install development packages:
 apt-get update
 apt-get upgrade
 apt-get install build-essential flex bison zlib1g-dev libncurses5-dev libssl-dev libfrontier-rpc-perl libmysqlclient-dev pkg-config
 mkdir -p /root/src/opensips

Note:

The apt-get upgrade is not necessary. But it is considered a good habit to always get your OS up-to-date.

But if you do apt-get upgrade and it looks like the process is also upgrading the kernel, then you should restart your Ubuntu to get that new kernel up and running.

Also note that those dependencies are for this lab purposes, in real situation you should only install what you need. For example mysql-server, if you already have one installed in other machine, you can use it instead if you want to.

For this exercise I recommend that you install MySQL server now:
 apt-get install mysql-server

== Step 2: Compile and install OpenSIPS ==

Execute below commands correctly to compile and install opensips:
 cd /root/src/opensips/
 wget -c http://opensips.org/pub/opensips/1.9.1/src/opensips-1.9.1_src.tar.gz
 tar -zxf opensips-1.9.1_src.tar.gz
 cd opensips-1.9.1-tls
 TLS=1 make
 TLS=1 make include_modules="db_mysql" modules
 TLS=1 make include_modules="db_mysql" install

Note:

Extra modules such as db_mysql or dialplan by default are not compiled and installed. We need to use ''include_modules'' on make command to compile and install them.

Do not forget to always put '''TLS=1''' in front of every make commands.

When all dependencies have been fulfilled and all commands executed correctly then we will have OpenSIPS with TLS supports.

== Step 3: Verify installation ==

Please verify that opensips binaries are exists in /usr/local/sbin, we should see opensips* and osip* binary files:
 ls -l /usr/local/sbin/

We also need to make sure that all default and required extra modules are copied to OpenSIPS module directory:
 ls -l /usr/local/lib/opensips/modules/


--<br>
Anton Raharja<br>
http://www.antonraharja.com<br>
