OpenSIPS has several handy tools to manage it, such as opensipsctl and osipconsole.

Even better we can also use a nice web based Graphical User Interface (GUI) to manage it. In addition we can also build our own management application if we want to. It is considered relatively easy to build a management interface for OpenSIPS as everything can be managed in 2 ways: through database and fifo to unix socket.

SerMyAdmin is the oldest GUI for OpenSIPS.

URL: http://sourceforge.net/projects/sermyadmin/

Download and extract SerMyAdmin:
 cd /root/src/opensips
 wget -c "http://downloads.sourceforge.net/project/sermyadmin/sermyadmin-install-2.0.1a.tar.gz?r=http%3A%2F%2Fsourceforge.net%2Fprojects%2Fsermyadmin%2Ffiles%2F&ts=1371694750&use_mirror=nchc" -O sermyadmin-install-2.0.1a.tar.gz
 tar -zxf sermyadmin-install-2.0.1a.tar.gz
 ls

Continue to installation. We have 2 choices to install SerMyAdmin.

== Choice 1: Automatic install ==

SerMyAdmin package contains an installer ''install.sh'', it is made only for specific conditions, they are:
* Newly created OpenSIPS database (you have just ran opensipsdbctl create opensips). The database "opensips" is still empty.
* You need sun-java6-jre which is not available in Ubuntu 12.04.1, but this is easily replaced by openjdk-6-jre

When you have met requirements above, you can use ''install.sh'':
 cd /root/src/opensips/sermyadmin-install
 apt-get install openjdk-6-jre
 ./install.sh

Follow instructions from install.sh.

== Choice 2: Manual install ==

If you already have a working OpenSIPS, with subscribers data already exists in database, then you should follow below steps to install SerMyAdmin rather than to use automatic install using ''install.sh'':
 cd /root/src/opensips/sermyadmin-install
 apt-get install openjdk-6-jre
 tar -zxf apache-tomcat-6.0.16.tar.gz -C /usr/local/
 mv /usr/local/apache-tomcat-6.0.16 /usr/local/tomcat6
 cp sermyadmin-2.0.1.war /usr/local/tomcat6/webapps/sermyadmin.war
 cp context.xml /usr/local/tomcat6/conf/
 cp script/tomcat6 /etc/init.d/
 update-rc.d tomcat6 defaults 99

We have not finished yet, we need to patch default ''sermyadmin.sql'' with the patch attached here. Download the attachment, copy/upload it to your OpenSIPS server where you want to install this SerMyAdmin, copy it to /root/src/opensips/sermyadmin-install, and then run below commands.
 cd /root/src/opensips/sermyadmin-install
 patch < sermyadmin-sql.patch
 mysql -uroot -p opensips < sermyadmin.sql

== Post Install ==

Continue with below steps after installation whether you were choosing choice 1 or 2.

Make some adjustment to suit our installation. SerMyAdmin requires opensipsctl, opensips and PID file in certain location:
 ln -s /usr/local/sbin/opensipsctl /usr/bin/
 ln -s /usr/local/sbin/opensips /usr/bin/
 ln -s /var/run/opensips/opensips.pid /var/run/opensips.pid

Continue to configure database setup, edit context.xml and update with correct database name, host, user and password.
 vi /usr/local/tomcat6/conf/context.xml

Example of context.xml:

 <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><Context path="/sermyadmin">
 <Resource auth="Container" driverClassName="com.mysql.jdbc.Driver" maxActive="20" maxIdle="10"
 maxWait="-1" name="jdbc/openser_MySQL" type="javax.sql.DataSource" 
 url="jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/opensips" username="root" password="pwd"/></Context>

Run tomcat6:
 /etc/init.d/tomcat6 start

Browse: http://<your SerMyAdmin server IP>:8080/sermyadmin

Login with default username '''admin@sermyadmin.org''' and password is '''secret'''.


--<br>
Anton Raharja<br>
http://www.antonraharja.com<br>
